# Multilabel Active Learning for Context Recognition In the Wild

Abstract

User context recognition refers to the automatic detection and inference of user context(activities, social circle, location) from sensory data. Context recognition in the wild posesseveral challenges due to high variability in behavioral patterns across multiple contexts. Whilecollection of data in uncontrolled environments has been made easier with the advancement inthe sensing capabilities of smartphones, the annotation of large amounts of multilabel contextdata for training supervised models is a tedious process.Active learning is a predominantly used technique to reduce annotation cost. Research inmultilabel active learning is at a nascent stage. We aim to study how multilabel active learningapplies to user context recognition. A specific goal is to construct an active learning pipelinethat will identify informative queries for labelling by the user.This thesis compares the performance of two multi label classification models with activelearning on the publicly available ExtraSensory Dataset. Specifically, this thesis shows that activelearning with Problem Transformation model is better than active learning with an AlgorithmAdapted model in terms of overall balanced accuracy. The results additionally indicate thatstrategies that query at random perform equally well as some strategies that actively select thequeries with MLP. We investigate the potential causes for this behavior and explore methods tomitigate their effects.
